# Podman Community Cabal Agenda Notes

### Attendees Ashley Cui, Christopher Evich, Ed Santiago Munoz, Gerry Seidman, Giuseppe Scrivano, Kevin Clevenger, Lokesh Mandvekar, Mario Loriedo, Miloslav Trmac, Nalin Dahyabhai, Neil Smith, Nicola Sella, Paul Holzinger, Tom Sweeney


### Meeting Notes
Video [Recording](https://youtu.be/OC4_oCT1cdg)

Meeting start 11:02 a.m. EDT (UTC-5) Tuesday, May 21, 2024

### May 21, 2024 Topics
1.  Fedora Test days - Presenter was not able to attend.


#### Open discussion - (0:22 in the video) -
1. Fedora Test days https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Test_Day:2024-05-23_Podman_5.1
2. Moving the Cabal to an every other month meeting, most likely odd months.  We will keep it on Tuesday, but we might move it to the first Tuesday of the month to mirror the community meeting.

### Next Cabal Meeting: Tuesday, July 2, 2024, 11:00 a.m. EDT (UTC-5)

#### Possible Topics
None specified.

### Next Community Meeting: Tuesday, June 4, 2024, 11:00 a.m. EDT (UTC-5)

#### Possible Topics:
Podman AI Lab

Meeting finished 11:05 a.m.

### Raw Meeting Chat:

```
If you're a Fedora user and would like to test out 5.1, we have a test day coming up on May 23. https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Test_Day:2024-05-23_Podman_5.1

```

### Raw Google Meet Transcript

```
Tom Sweeney: Morning, everybody. This is Tuesday May 21st. 2024. This is the cloud man Community College. generally this is a meeting that we talk about potential design topics for pod man, or any of its tools that are related such as Builders. Scopio rather than demoing with more the community meeting which we hold at the beginning of the month. And today we have one topic that we had lined up for Fedora test days. Unfortunately the person who's going to be talking about that had to be a lot of classmen today. So we have no topics unless somebody has something. To maybe have anything they'd like to discuss today.
Lokesh Mandvekar: So quick note about the essay. I put a note in chat with a link to the 5.1 estate document. So if there is the drawer user and you'd like to sell 5.1, let's take a look. And that's it.
Tom Sweeney: Okay, go ahead and put into the agenda for today.
Tom Sweeney: Gerry did you have anything in particular you want to talk about or Kevin?
Gerry Seidman: Nothing on my end.
Kevin Clevenger: No, I know.
Tom Sweeney: Hey anybody else?
Tom Sweeney: Right given this is the second meaning in a row that we've had to this that's been very lately. Populated with topics shall we say I'm leaning towards making this every other month meeting rather than a monthly meeting and probably move this to keep this in the odd months and then hold the community meetings in the even months going forward and we'll see how that lays out. I mean change it from the third week of the month or the to the first Tuesday of the month. So it lines up and we'll just have the first two state of the month moving forward being a part man meeting of either the community or the cabal meetings going forward. So that's my thinking of people have thoughts about that to share now or later. Please let me know.
```
